wcag clarifications may 2026 (#1995)
w3c/wai-website: pages/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq.md

{% include_cached toc.html type="start" title="Page Contents" class="simple" %}
{:/}

{::options toc_levels="2, 3" /}

<ul class="questions">
  <li>Top questions
    <ul>
      <li><a href="#start">Where should I start learning about WCAG 2?</a></li>
      <li><a href="#next">What about WCAG 3?</a></li>

>       <li><a href="#parsing411">How and why is WCAG 2 Success Criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete?</a></li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <li><a href="#parsing411">How and why is WCAG 2 Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete?</a></li>
```

      <li><a href="#languages">Is WCAG 2 available in other languages?</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

{:toc}

{::nomarkdown}
{% include_cached toc.html type="end" %}
{:/}

## Top questions

### Where should I start learning about WCAG 2? {#start}

For introductory resources, see [Accessibility Fundamentals Overview](/fundamentals/).

If you want a really short introduction to three web accessibility issues (alternative text for images, keyboard input, and transcripts), see [Examples of Web Accessibility](/fundamentals/accessibility-intro/#examples).

To learn about web accessibility principles and guidelines, see [[Accessibility Principles]](/fundamentals/accessibility-principles/).

**To learn about WCAG 2 specifically, start with the [WCAG Overview](/standards-guidelines/wcag/).** It provides an important foundation for understanding the different WCAG 2 documents, and points to several resources for using WCAG 2.

[How to Meet WCAG 2: A customizable quick reference](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/) is the primary resource for developers using WCAG 2.

### What about WCAG 3? {#next}

WCAG 3 years away from being completed.

> WCAG 3 is the result of the project previously temporarily referred to as “Silver”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WCAG 3 is the result of the project previously referred to as “Silver”.
```

**Please see important up-to-date information in the [WCAG 3 Introduction page](https://www.w3.org/WAI/wcag3).**

#### WCAG 3 Name {#wcag3name}

WCAG 2 and WCAG 3 have different names.

> The new standard is currently referred to as “W3C Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 3.0”. This name was chosen because of wide-spread familiarity with the “WCAG” acronym, and to encompass the broader scope beyond “content”.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new standard is currently referred to as “W3C Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 3.0”. This name was chosen because of wide-spread familiarity with the “WCAG” acronym, and to encompass the broader scope beyond “web content”.
```

This is more correct.

> ### How and why is WCAG 2 Success Criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete? {#parsing411}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How and why is WCAG 2 Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete? {#parsing411}
```

> Success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing is obsolete. WCAG 2.2 indicates it as [4.1.1 Parsing (Obsolete and removed)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#parsing), along with a note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing is obsolete. WCAG 2.2 indicates it as [4.1.1 Parsing (Obsolete and removed)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#parsing), along with a note.
```
Besides changing from plural to single, also capitalized “Criterion” per the [WCAG 2 style guide](https://github.com/w3c/wcag/wiki/WCAG-2-style-guide#word-usage).

## WCAG 2 versions and updates

### When a new version of WCAG 2 is published, does it change the previous version? {#wcag-stable}

No. The WCAG 2 requirements (success criteria) are the same in later versions. For example, the success criteria in WCAG 2.1 are not changed in WCAG 2.2. Later versions add new success criteria, and do not change existing success criteria. One exception is [4.1.1 Parsing noted above](#parsing411).

Each updated WCAG standard (called a "W3C Recommendation") has a unique web address (URI). The standard at that URI does not change. For example, the standard published [5 June 2018 at https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/REC-WCAG21-20180605/](https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/REC-WCAG21-20180605/) will not change.

### What is different in WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2? {#done} {#v21} {#v22}

See:
* [WCAG 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 section of WCAG 2 Overview ](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/#versions)
* [What's New in WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-21/)
* [What's New in WCAG 2.2](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-22/)

> The Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) will probably not do another version of WCAG 2, that is, not do WCAG 2.3. AG WG is working on WCAG 3.0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) has no plans to do another version of WCAG 2. AG WG is working on WCAG 3.0.
```

> The Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) will probably not do another version of WCAG 2, that is, not do WCAG 2.3. AG WG is working on WCAG 3.0.

Author: ```suggestion
The Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG) is not planning to do another version of WCAG 2, that is, not do WCAG 2.3. AG WG is working on WCAG 3.
```

### What was updated in WCAG 2.2 in December 2024? {#Dec2024}

On 12 December 2024, we published an update to WCAG 2.2. The update includes:
* modified definitions of single pointer, used in an unusual or restricted way, motion animation, and programmatically determined
* minor formatting and editorial changes listed in the [WCAG 2.2 Change Log](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#changelog)

### What was updated in WCAG 2.1 in 2023 and 2024? {#Sept2023}

On 12 December 2024, we published an update to WCAG 2.1. The update includes:
* minor formatting and editorial changes listed in the [WCAG 2.1 Change Log](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#changelog)

On 21 September 2023, we published an update to WCAG 2.1. The update includes:

> * added informative notes to success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing more information is above in [Why is success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411)

Author: ```suggestion
* added informative notes to success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing (more information is in [Why is success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411))
```

> * added informative notes to success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing more information is above in [Why is success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* added informative notes to success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing more information is available in [Why is success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411)
```

> * added informative notes to success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing more information is above in [Why is success criteria 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* added informative notes to Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing more information is available in [Why is Success Criterion 4.1.1 Parsing obsolete](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411)
```

Also incorporated @iadawn’s [suggestion](https://github.com/w3c/wai-website/pull/1995/changes#r3180833142).

We are updating Understanding WCAG 2.2 documents to address internationalization considerations more thoroughly.

## Supporting documents

### What are the different WCAG 2 documents? {#docs}

Along with WCAG are supporting materials including Understanding WCAG, WCAG Techniques, and How to Meet WCAG 2 (Quick Reference).

To learn how the different WCAG 2 technical documents are related and linked, see [[The WCAG 2 Documents]](/standards-guidelines/wcag/docs/).

> Some background: Here’s a little more perspective on the different technical documents. When web content and web software developers were using WCAG ***1.0***, they had many questions on how to implement it, how to evaluate for it, and the reasons behind its requirements. WAI wanted to provide this information with WCAG 2, and since those details don’t fit well in a technical standard, they are in the supporting documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some background: Here’s a little more perspective on the different technical documents. When web content authors and developers were using WCAG ***1.0***, they had many questions on how to implement it, how to evaluate conformance, and the reasons behind its requirements. WAI wanted to provide this guidance with WCAG 2, and since those details don’t fit well in a technical standard, they are in the supporting documents.
```
Super editorial suggestions.

Author: thanks. I tweaked it with some of your suggestions and other edits while I was there :)

> Some background: Here’s a little more perspective on the different technical documents. When web content and web software developers were using WCAG ***1.0***, they had many questions on how to implement it, how to evaluate for it, and the reasons behind its requirements. WAI wanted to provide this information with WCAG 2, and since those details don’t fit well in a technical standard, they are in the supporting documents.

Author: ```suggestion
Some background: Here’s a little more perspective on the different technical documents. When content authors and developers were using WCAG ***1.0***, they had many questions on how to implement it, how to evaluate conformance, and the reasons behind its requirements. W3C wanted to provide this information with WCAG 2. Since those details do not fit well in a technical standard, they are in separate supporting documents.
```

### Do the supporting documents change WCAG 2 requirements and conformance?  {#independent}

No. 

**Important: Only the WCAG technical standard includes requirements**, which are called "normative" requirements. The supporting materials are informative; they are not normative. That means the Techniques, Understanding documents, and other supporting materials:
* do not set or change requirements for WCAG
* are not required for conformance to WCAG

> Updates to supporting material provide additional clarification, address public comments, and cover changes in technologies and tools. The updates do not change or alter WCAG 2 requirements or conformance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates to supporting material provide additional clarification, address public comments, and cover changes in technologies and tools. The updates do not change WCAG 2 requirements or conformance.
```

Is there a meaningful difference in this context?

Author: I agree "alter" is not necessary in general. Because that is wording used in some misunderstandings now, I'd like to include it for now. We can edit it out later when things settle down with that.
Though if you or anyone really do not want it now, I'm fine without it.

Author: resolving since I'm wanting to clean this up asap. feel free to re-suggest now or later.

  
### Do the techniques ensure accessibility in different technologies? {#othertechs}

WCAG 2 is designed to apply to a broad range of web technologies.

[Techniques for WCAG 2](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/) has techniques for several different web technologies. *Note that publication of techniques for a specific technology does not imply that the technology can be used in all cases to create accessible content that meets WCAG 2.*

Developers need to be aware of the limitations of specific technologies and ensure that they create content in a way that is accessible to all their potential users.

### Does WCAG 2 cover the accessibility needs of people with cognitive and learning disabilities? {#coga}

See [[Cognitive Accessibility at W3C]](/cognitive/) for information on:
* accessibility for people with cognitive and learning disabilities (“cognitive accessibility”)
* existing standards from the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)
* informative guidance beyond the standards

> * on-going work on cognitive accessibility support at W3C WAI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ongoing work on cognitive accessibility support at W3C WAI
```

## Get updates and more information

### How can I get notified of updates? {#getnews}

> We will announce when more information is available on WCAG 2 and WCAG 3. To get announcements of updated drafts for review in e-mail, tweets, and RSS, see [Get WAI News](https://www.w3.org/WAI/news/subscribe/).

Author: ```suggestion
We will announce when more information is available on WCAG 2 and WCAG 3. To get announcements of updated drafts for review, see [Get WAI News](https://www.w3.org/WAI/news/subscribe/).
```

> We will announce when more information is available on WCAG 2 and WCAG 3. To get announcements of updated drafts for review in e-mail, tweets, and RSS, see [Get WAI News](https://www.w3.org/WAI/news/subscribe/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will announce when more information is available on WCAG 2 and WCAG 3. To get announcements of updated drafts for review in email, tweets, and RSS, see [Get WAI News](https://www.w3.org/WAI/news/subscribe/).
```

We recently [moved to a preference for “email” in the 2.X Task Force](https://github.com/w3c/wcag/pull/4385) — would we like to do the same here?

Author: Yup e-mail -> email
